John the Ripper formatting automation script

Author: Rich Smith 
Written: Dec 2024
Contact: (richrsmith@proton.me)

This script was written as means to automate the formatting process within John the Ripper. John boasts an impressive number of 
formatting options available to the user, however, an issue with this is if the user is attempting to break a large number of hashes
with multiple format types within the same (or multiple files) John may not be able to run without specifiying the --format-<format type>
option. Leaving users to have to go back and manually run the program wasting valuble time and resources. This script allows the user
to run John the Ripper without having to manually run these various formats against a single or even multiple files. 

The script has also been modified to give the user the ability to input a custom wordlist (or multiple wordlists), use the default 
John wordlist, or even just use the industry standard rockyou.txt wordlist. However the rockyou.txt must be located within the 
/usr/share/wordlists directory. In the future I will modify the script so that it will search the system for the rockyou.txt wordlist
and if not found download it to give the user more plug and play versatility. 

Additionally more functionality has been given the script allowing the user to change the processor fork of John. 
At this time I have not added checks to that functionality so it is up to the user to know what the maximum for is their 
system in capable of if they choose to use the "custom" option. Otherwise using the "high performance" option will give the script the power
to determine maximum system capabilities. Likewise if the user choose the utilize the "low performance" option this will utilize the default
fork value which is 1. Truth be told there isn't a signficant difference between the default and a fork of 8, in fact it without proper cooling
I probably wouldn't recommend altering the fork value. 

One key aspect that I did be sure to add to this program is the ability to use *nix style globbing. I detest having to type out complex
named directories or files, and like many I'll often mistype these complex names, simply adding globbing was a way for me to keep some
of my own sanity when typing out long and complex directory/file names.

        TODO:
-ADD dyanimc formatting option - help for this can be found in the /usr/share/doc/john/DYNAMIC_SCRIPTING README file.
-OPTIMIZE how the script runs against the format types, even now just running 2 hash files with only a few hashes each and
    a custom wordlist that is very small it takes forever a day to run through all the format types simply because I don't need
    all the format types every time. Potentially need to call another program first, or develop something in python to ID the
    hashes in the file and pass that along to main so it selects only the required format types.
-ADD more wordlists to the wordlist selection tab, this will require me to package these custom wordlists with the script, 
    for right now its assumed that the user will have the rockyou.txt wordlist already on their system in the /usr/share/wordlists
    directory.
-ADD checks to the --fork-<fork option> feature to keep the user from creating errors by using a fork their system is incapable of running.
-ADD dynamic modification to the format list, this will ensure as John the Ripper developers continue to work on the program this 
    script will be capable of keeping the format list up to date without manual modification.
-MODIFY time function to keep track of individual times for each file as well as a running total time.

RESERVED: instructions
